# Fake Product Identification using Blockchain (Kawach)

This is the official repository for the Capstone Project of Team 155, focusing on the development of a blockchain-based solution for identifying fake products in supply chains.

## Overview

The project aims to tackle the issue of counterfeit products by leveraging blockchain technology to create a transparent and secure system for tracking the journey of products from manufacturers to consumers. By implementing a decentralized ledger and smart contracts, the solution provides a reliable method for verifying the authenticity of products throughout the supply chain.

## Features

- **QR Code Tracking:** Products are assigned unique QR codes generated by manufacturers. These codes are scanned and logged at each stage of the supply chain, allowing for real-time tracking of product movement.
  
- **Blockchain Security:** Ethereum blockchain is utilized to store product information securely. Smart contracts govern the interactions between participants, ensuring trust and immutability of data.
  
- **Metamask Integration:** Integration with the Metamask browser extension enables users to interact with the blockchain directly from their web browsers, enhancing user experience and accessibility.

## Installation

To set up the development environment and run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

```
git clone https://github.com/asteriskesky/capstone.git
```

2. Install the required Node.js packages:

```
npm install
```

3. Compile the contract source files:

```
truffle compile
```

4. Open Ganache and configure the local blockchain environment.

5. Configure Metamask with the local blockchain network.

6. Migrate contracts to the local blockchain:

```
truffle migrate
```


7. Start the development server:

```
npm run dev
```


8. Access the project in your browser at `http://localhost:3000`.

## Technologies Used

- Truffle Framework
- Ganache
- Solidity
- Node.js
- Web3.js
- Metamask

## Team Members

- Akash Ojha
- Areeb Ahmad
- Harsh Dwivedi
- Sanchali Sanjay Deshmukh

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

